= sinatra-gen

http://github.com/quirkey/sinatra-gen

== DESCRIPTION:

sinatra-gen generates a common file structure and basic app files for a web app utilizing the sinatra framework.
For more information on sinatra, check out http://sinatrarb.com

== SYNOPSIS:
  
sinatra-gen has a bunch of different options (based looseley on merb-gen) to try to not lock the 
user into any specific frameworks/dev practices.

Run:

  sinatra-gen [appname] [options] [paths]
  
e.g.

  sinatra-gen mysinatrapp --vendor --init --test=shoulda --views=haml get:/ post:/:id

! Note: As of version 0.4.0 by default the sinatra app is placed in lib/appname.rb and is a subclass of Sinatra::Application. If you want 'classic' style apps (no class/module) use the --tiny option.

=== Actions

For even faster app development you specify actions to include in your app when generating.
Actions are written out as

  http_method:path

And are separated by spaces. For example:

  get:/ post:/:id put:/update/*
  
Will be added you your app as:

  get '/' do
  end
  
  post '/:id' do
  end
  
  put '/update/*' do
  end

It will also generate test skeletons in the test framework of your choosing.

=== Middleware

You can specify middleware to include by passing the filename(s) or class name(s), seperated by commas.
  
  sinatra-gen myapp --middleware=rack/flash,Rack::Cache
  
Will place both the 'require' and 'use' statements in your app.

  require 'rack/flash'
  require 'rack/cache'
  
  #...
  
  use Rack::Flash
  use Rack::Cache

=== Options 

(can also be obtained by running sinatra-gen with no arguments):

    -v, --version                    Show the sinatra-gen version number and quit.
    -d, --vendor                     Extract the latest sinatra to vendor/sinatra
        --tiny                       Only create the minimal files.
        --init                       Initialize a git repository
        --heroku                     Create a Heroku app (also runs 'git init').
 Optionally, specify the path to the heroku bin
        --cap                        Adds config directory with basic capistrano deploy.rb
        --scripts                    Install the rubigen scripts (script/generate, script/destroy)
        --test=test_framework        Specify your testing framework (bacon (default)/rspec/spec/shoulda/test)
        --views=view_framework       Specify your view framework (haml (default)/erb/builder)
        --middleware=rack-middleware Specify Rack Middleware to be required and included (comma delimited)
        --vegas, --bin=[bin_name]    Create an executable bin using Vegas. Pass an optional bin_name
General Options:
    -h, --help                       Show this help message and quit.
    -p, --pretend                    Run but do not make any changes.
    -f, --force                      Overwrite files that already exist.
    -s, --skip                       Skip files that already exist.
    -q, --quiet                      Suppress normal output.
    -t, --backtrace                  Debugging: show backtrace on errors.
    -c, --svn                        Modify files with subversion. (Note: svn must be in path)
    -g, --git                        Modify files with git. (Note: git must be in path)


The --tiny option will create no directories. Just an app.rb, a Rakefile, and a config.ru (Rackup file)

== ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS:

Big props to the Sinatra developers (http://github.com/bmizerany/sinatra/).
Also, thanks to Dr. Nic (http://github.com/drnic) for the Rubigen and Newgem libraries

== REQUIREMENTS:

To use the --vendor option, git must be installed. 
To use the --bin/vegas option Vegas is required (sudo gem install vegas). 
To use the --heroku option, a Heroku account and the heroku gem is required (sudo gem install heroku).

To run the app without using the vendor option, the sinatra gem must be installed.

== INSTALL:

  sudo gem install sinatra-gen

You can also install directly from github:

  sudo gem install quirkey-sinatra-gen -s http://gems.github.com
